Cloud Security
Our first idea would be to investigate cloud computing techniques and security. This would give us an opportunity to broaden our understanding of how companies, such as google or amazon, collectively keep all their data in one place and still safe and sound. This would pose a more challenging topic, as neither of us have ever thought to research this type of data collection. Another reason why we might want to research this topic is because of growing reliance on cloud services. We will try to ensure the security of data and applications hosted on these platforms, while also seeing how this is more cost effective than traditional on-premises security infrastructure.
We expect our project to be broken up into phases where we can explore different aspects of cloud computing, such as how companies implement their cloud infrastructure, the security and encryption components they use to protect their various databases of information, the vulnerabilities of these systems, and their intrusion detection/mitigation systems. We hope to perhaps create our own simulations or create interactive programming to see these systems work firsthand, one by one. It is expected that programming will be utilized in the code, whether it be modifying existing code or creating our own code implementations. Python or Java seems to be the most accessible for us, so the code will most likely be in this language. Our progress will be documented with screenshots, command-line instructions, documentations from existing sources, and explanations of why we made the decisions we chose to make.
In the end, we hope to demonstrate the extent of our project’s findings through a demonstration presentation, where we explain the motivation behind our topic, our processes, our technical implementations, and what we learned or found surprising in the form of a video.
A core set of things that we think are crucial for the project is firstly to gain understanding of common security threats and various types of attacks specifically targeting cloud infrastructure and applications. Through in-depth research with cloud services such as Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform, our team could explore different techniques in exploring data privacy, access control, and encryption etc. In addition to understanding common security threats and exploring different techniques for data privacy and access control, a thorough approach to cybersecurity in the cloud project would also be essential such as involving clear procedures for detecting, analyzing and mitigating security risks to avoid potential damage. Understanding how Identity and Access Management (IAM) frameworks, encryption key management systems are also add another crucial layer to our project. Furthermore, our team will fully implement an auditing system via cloud environment to help us pinpoint various types of threats in real-time. By utilizing security tools built for cloud and automation, it becomes easier to manage security, adapt to various changes. This could involve deploying encryption protocols, access controls, and monitoring mechanisms for data security and further dive into applications. For example, we can use some tools made specifically for the cloud and set up automated processes to handle several security tasks smoothly. Therefore, there will be lots of in-depth research in understanding the fundamentals of cloud services. Additionally, it is important to be aware of the cloud environment continuously and keep checking for any potential risks. Without these key components above, this project would feel incomplete, leaving critical aspects of cloud security unaddressed. 
A few things we expect to get done, or out of this project, is a possible mini API simulation of how cloud services work. Obvious papers, slide shows, video demonstrations of our findings and essentials that relate to cyber security in the cloud will be cited and applied. Overall, we want to get the most understanding and learning out of how cyber security impacts technology. Another thing we expect we will get out of this is a new skill set for future job interviews such as understanding how AWS, Google Cloud Platform’s functionality are essential for businesses to choose the cost-effective tools for various computing needs, and can take advantage of built-in security features and best practices to protect their data and infrastructure.  Cloud providers could continuously innovate and release new services and features. Therefore, understanding those cutting-edge techniques can allow businesses to stay competitive. We will be well rounded computer scientists that can, not only code, but understand the intertwinings of the systems and take proper care of our data and work.
The stretch goal would be to breach our own cyber security system within the cloud simulations. By coming up with various ways cloud security can be breached, it gives us insight into the levels of vulnerabilities cloud security can put risk onto a company’s IT systems and databases. Breach our own system, see where the weaknesses are, and possibly fix and see how other hackers would think of getting into similar systems and data. 
